---
layout: distill
title: Competing on data
date: 2020-12-04
description: Key Data considerations needed to help build a competitive advantage.

authors:
  - name: Mohan Ramesh
    url: "https://github.com/Neuromancer24"
    affiliations: 
      name: University of Limerick

toc:
  - name: Introduction
    # if a section has subsections, you can add them as follows:
    # subsections:
    #   - name: Example Child Subsection 1
    #   - name: Example Child Subsection 2
  - name: 1. Choose the right data
  - name: 2. Build models that predict and optimize business outcomes
  - name: 3. Transform your company’s capabilities 
    subsections:
        - name: 3.1. Developing business-relevant analytics that can be used
        - name: 3.2. Embed analytics in simple tools for the front lines
        - name: 3.3. Developing capabilities to exploit big data
  - name: 4. Conclusion
  - name: 5. References

_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---
## Introduction

As we saw in the ‘GameGolf ‘Example, even though you are first to build a product, you can easily be taken over, copied, or recreated in a different way or for a completely different demographic. John McGuire,the founder of GameGolf, when found his idea was copied and mass produced in china, followed a right move any organization should do. Instead of looking at the situation in a negative way, he took advantage of the data he had and expanded it to other territories by increasing his field of vision, as well as the vison and objective of GameGolf.Most companies recognize that they have opportunities to use data and analytics to raise productivity, improve decision making, and gain competitive advantage. "Analytics will define the difference between the losers and winners going forward," says Tim McGuire, a McKinsey director. But, mapping out an analytics plan is complicated. You must set a strategy; draw a detailed road map for investing in assets such as technology, tools, and data sets; and tackle the intrinsic challenges of securing commitment, reinventing processes.Broadly speaking any organization must consider the following keys to build an effective data driven strategy.

### 1. Choose the right data 
Over the last five years, the universe of data and modelling has shifted vastly. The amount of knowledge is increasing, whilst opportunities are accelerating to extend perspectives by integrating data. Bigger and improved data provide enterprises with both more panoramic and more granular views of their corporate climate. The opportunity to see what was previously unknown enhances behaviours, client encounters, and policy. That means boosting the game in two ways, they are -Sourcing the data creatively:Managers will need to develop the potential of external and current data sources in an innovative way. In the form of conversations, images and videos, social media produces terabytes of non-traditional, unstructured data. In addition, data streams from sensors, tracked systems, and external sources ranging from local populations to weather predictions are added to that. One way to promote wider thought about future knowledge is to suggest, "What choices could we make if we had all the data we need?"Getting the necessary IT supportExisting IT architectures may prevent the integration of siloed information, and managing unstructured data often remains beyond traditional IT capabilities.It also takes years to fully fix these problems. Market owners though will meet the demands of big data in the near term by partnering with CIOs to prioritize criteria. This ensures that the most relevant data for analytics use is easily found and connected and then a cleaning operation is mounted to synchronize and reconcile overlapping data and work around lost information.

### 2. Build models that predict and optimize business outcomes. 
Data are essential, but improvements in efficiency and competitive advantage benefit 
from computational models that allow managers to anticipate and maximize results. More 
specifically, not with the data, but with the discovery of a market opportunity and deciding 
how the model will boost efficiency, the most productive approach to developing a model 
generally begins. In functional data relationships that are more widely understood by 
administrators, we have observed that such hypothesis-led modelling produces quicker 
findings and root models.

### 3. Transform your company’s capabilities. 
The concerned senior executives express to us is that their managers do not understand or trust big data–based models and, consequently, don’t use them. Bottom line: using big data requires thoughtful organizational change, and three areas of action can get you there, they are 

- Developing business-relevant analytics that can be used
Many initial Big Data and Analytics applications fail because they are not in line with the regular practices and decision-making requirements of an organization. Model planners need to consider the sorts of strategic decisions that executives make to match their actions with wider business priorities. Conversations with frontline management can ensure that analytics and instruments support current decision-making procedures such that organizations can better address a variety of trade-offs.

- Embed analytics in simple tools for the front lines
Managers require straightforward ways to make regular use of the latest models and algorithms. By necessity, to sharpen marketing, risk management and operations, terabytes of data and sophisticated modelling are needed. The key is to distinguish the specialists in analytics and app engineers from the managers who use the observations that are powered by results. The goal: to provide intuitive tools and interfaces to frontline managers that support them with their work.

- Developing capabilities to exploit big data
Even with simple and usable models, most organizations will need to upgrade their analytical skills and literacy. To make analytics part of the fabric of daily operations, managers must view it as central to solving problems and identifying opportunities.Based on the targets and expected timeline of an organization, attempts can differ. Usually, adjusting cultures and mind-sets requires a multifaceted approach that entails preparation, leadership role modelling, and rewards and indicators to strengthen actions. For example, adult learners also benefit from a "field and forum" approach in which they engage in real-world, analytical-based job choices that help them to learn by doing so.(Barton and Court 2013)

## Conclusion 
The use of Analytics is increasing across industries. It is fuelled by trending concepts like 
big data and data science, innovative technologies such as distributed computing and inmemory databases, as well as the rapid increase of data available for processing. A recent 
survey showed a constant increase of organizations perceiving the role of Analytics as 
critical, a closing maturity and capability gap between digital natives and traditional 
companies in applying Analytics and its strategic role, as embodied in appointments of Clevel executives for Analytics.
‘Competitive advantage’ is frequently discussed in the strategic management literature. 
The resource-based view argues for competitive advantage based on the resources of 
firms, including assets, capabilities, processes, attributes, and knowledge—if these are rare, 
imperfectly imitable, and non-substitutable. (Herden 2020)


## References 
Barton, D., Court, D. (2013) ‘Three Keys to Building a Data-Driven Strategy’, McKinsey Global Institute, available: https://www.mckinsey.com/businessfunctions/mckinsey-digital/our-insights/three-keys-to-building-a-data-drivenstrategy [accessed 4 Dec 2020].

Herden, T.T. (2020) ‘Explaining the competitive advantage generated from Analytics with the knowledge-based view: the example of Logistics and Supply Chain Management’, Business Research, 13(1), 163–214, available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s40685- [accessed 4 Dec 2020]