---
layout: distill
title: Analytics leverage!
date: 2020-11-25
tags: data, business
description: Challenges that organisations must address to succeed in analytics

authors:
  - name: Mohan Ramesh
    url: "https://github.com/Neuromancer24"
    affiliations: 
      name: None

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: Discussion
    subsections:
        - name: Poor Collaboration Among Key Stakeholders.
        - name: Succumbing to the Allure of the Latest and Greatest Technology.
        - name: Relying Too Heavily on Either Top-Down or Bottom-Up Initiatives.
        - name: Failing to Build on Success.
  - name: Conclusion
  - name: References

_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---

# Introduction

From an agency perspective, one must always follow this sequence of addressing the analytics issue -

1. First thing to do, it is a combination of – keep asking questions and keep 
trying to go behind why consumer is doing that.
2. Then, try to elevate into data and analytics. Starting with huge data right 
away, we will swim in it and we will not be able to swim out of that ocean.
3. As you get into digital marketing, social medial and heavy analytics. It is always consumer insights and data is only an enabler to that.

Regardless of what industry a company is in, its position on the offense - defence spectrum is rarely static.

**The ASSUMPTION:** Companies can build winner-take-all positions by collecting and analysing customer data. The more customers a firm has, the more data it can gather and mine; the resulting insights allow it to offer a better product that attracts even more customers, from which it can collect still more data.

**The REALITY:**Even when customer data does confer a competitive advantage, it gives rise to network effects only infrequently. And that advantage may not last.

**The SOLUTION:** To understand the edge that data-enabled learning can provide, companies should answer seven questions, which examine the value of the data; whether its marginal value drops quickly; how fast it becomes obsolete; whether it’s proprietary; whether the improvements from it can be easily imitated; whether they enhance the product for current users, other users, or both; and how fast insights can be incorporated into products. (Hagiu and Wright 2020)  
Fortunately, the experiences of analytics leaders shed light on the most likely roadblocks so organizations with evolving analytics projects can head them off early. Here are the four challenges most frequently faced by global enterprises and how you can overcome each one. (Insights Team 2018)

# Discussion

### Poor Collaboration Among Key Stakeholders.
Create a cross-functional analytics team that includes stakeholders in technology, business, operations, legal and HR to promote the use of analytics in individual departments as well as across the enterprise.

### Succumbing to the Allure of the Latest and Greatest Technology.

 Do not implement advanced technology for its own sake. Carefully analyse the conditions that influence your company today and find areas where business results can be enhanced by the implementation of intelligent analytics tools. Think if emerging innovations are going to help the business become more profitable, save money, or contribute to better goods and services being created. Many of the information gathered by companies is simply noise before the proper technology and methods are applied to explain what it means.
 
### Relying Too Heavily on Either Top-Down or Bottom-Up Initiatives. 
Test the existing analytical capabilities of the new workforce, frankly. Doing so will offer two major insights. First, it can help you recognize analytics-savvy influencerswithin your organization-people who may not have the most senior roles, but who may persuade colleagues to embrace new ways of operating because of their experience and collaborative connections. Second, the internal review would also reveal holes in talent that need to be filled. opt for new employees or external collaborators who show a strong track record of successful use of data.

### Failing to Build on Success.

 Business projects should be defined by the corporate analytics team where data-driven decision-making also provides well recorded benefits. To encourage the broader use of analytical methods in the industry and to justify investments in sophisticated instruments such as AI, utilizing these promising outcomes. In certain agencies, exciting and efficient initiatives can serve to inspire some work groups to embrace analytics.Potential roadblocks abound for enterprises striving to expand their use of analytics for competitive advantage. But by addressing these challenges head-on, you can set your organization up for success. 

# Conclusion: 
My final suggestions would be Putting Experimentation into Practice
1. Keep the team small.
2. Metrics: choose one, view many.
3. De-averaging.
4. Test small changes.
5. Re-test ideas.
6. Do not forget performance.

# References: 
Hagiu, A., Wright, J. (2020) ‘When data creates competitive advantage’, Harvard Business Review, 98(1), 94–101, available: https://hbr.org/2020/01/when-data-creates-competitive-advantage [accessed  Dec 2020].

Insights Team (2018) Forbes Insights: 4 Challenges With Leveraging Analytics --And How To Overcome Them [online], FORBES, available: https://www.forbes.com/sites/insights-cisco/2018/08/15/4-challenges-with-leveraging-analytics-and-how-to-overcome-them/?sh=687928382469 [accessed 4 Dec 2020]