---
layout: distill
title: Decision making is an art!
date: 2020-11-07
tags: data, business
description: A case study of procter and gamble

authors:
  - name: Mohan Ramesh
    url: "https://github.com/Neuromancer24"
    affiliations: 
      name: None

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: Discussion
  - name: Conclusion
  - name: References

_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---
# Introduction 
In a study conducted by EY, it was observed that around 81% of executives of leading companies believe that “data should be at the heart of all decision making and that relying on gut-feeling sometimes lead better decision- making when company’s growth is concerned than only following the statistics science. 

# Discussion
A good example of above can be seen in case study of P&G. The management team of P&G had an opinion that IT could support data analytics throughout the country. This could be done by providing it role in which it will be a central repository for data and provides software tools for aiding analysis. But Passerinihad different plans for company. He believed that IDS (Information and Decision Solutions) which had human as well as technical capabilities for decision support and analytics in supply chain and sales/marketing domain. He proposed that IDS would support business leaders by providing them enough data. They also put this on website mentioning, “IDS stretch far beyond the traditional aspects of ‘hardware and software’, instead we are a key business enabler that advances technology tools, strategic development, collaboration and decision-making”. Passerini believed that IDS had people as well systems to improve the ways of decision-making by managers of company. With Bob McDonald’s support, who shared equal enthusiasm for data and analytics and belonging to similar educational background, Passerini could now bring his ideas to life. When implementation of making “Analytics as a Centralised Service” started many opportunities came up for improving the basic decision-making structure followed by far. It was decided that after establishing data standards for storing data coming from different parts of business, aggregation of comparison of data shall be done across product lines and regions. This made things less complicated. Passerini was posing as a great example of driving Data science with human intellectual and not just mere statistics. Eventually managers started seeing the impact and profit of Paserrini’s ideas. The idea to have a single, company-wide database was benefitting company for good. The process of decision making for managers now became easier as the data they had comprised all parts of company. Also, with the data standards being followed a transparency was established across all levels. Leaders did not have to spend managing datasets, they only had to look at it few times and now can give more time for coming up with new strategies to expand business. Time was saved which was now utilised in moving business forward. This speeded up decision making and ultimately improved marketing. With generations of data and reports being automated and making them available for use around multiple business units the data visualisation was improved. The inclusion of data visualisation tools like charts and graphics made data simpler to understand. Now a person from non-technical background as well can participate and help in decision-making. Giving opportunity for various views from managerial levels to pour in. This IDS team also acted as centralised hub for sharing ideas. The ambitious goal of Passerini and McDonald proved to be of great profit to company. Their passion to accelerate decision-making with real-time information at hand and shifting the focus from “what” to “why” and “how” was proving profitable.  

# Conclusion: 
P&G had all resources and data systems that a business needed but by relying only on the statistics generated they spent precious time only in sorting and understanding datasets. The variety of data generated and loaded from different business units without following a particular data standard added to challenges of data analytics. With this centralised IDS system, managers now could save enough time and focus this on improving business. Thus, Passerini and McDonald posed a great example of management being much more than a science. 

# References:
Davenport, T.; Iansiti, M. and Serels, A. (2013). “Managing with Analytics at Procter & Gamble”, Harvard Business School, N9-613-045. p. 1-20.Martin, R. and Golsby-Smith, T. (2017). “Management is much more than a science”, Understanding Management’s value, Harvard Business Review.