---
layout: distill
title: Leadership - what is takes to be a leader!
date: 2021-05-04
tags: general
description: Articulation of the philosophy of leadership by analyzing 2 well known leaders

authors:
  - name: Mohan Ramesh
    url: "https://github.com/Neuromancer24"
    affiliations: 
      name: Personal

toc:
  - name: Introduction
  - name: The Underlying Philosophy
  - name: Build models that predict and optimize business outcomes
  - name: Transform your company’s capabilities 
  - name: Conclusion
  - name: References

_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---
<div class="row mt-">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/elon.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
Nations pay him to get to space; his solar business is cashflow positive; his hybrid supercars seat seven people; superheroes look up to him, and he wants to die on Mars! He is  
**ELON REEVE MUSK**

<div class="row mt-">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/diana.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
    </div>
</div>
She could walk into a room of people and make everyone feel as if erything was great. The People’s queen who never lost the capacity to smile and laugh. The princess who changed the face of the royal family! She is  
**DIANA FRANCES SPENCER**

Leaders are critical because they instil trust in their followers and assist them in achieving shared goals. There are several leadership models, and in this article, we will examine two great leaders with a blend of multiple leadership styles. Both being transformational and charismatic, yet extremely kind and servant leaders.  


# The Underlying Philosophy

## Defining Leadership
Leadership is not a position; it is an action. It is the ability to ‘consistently’ embrace the consequences of decisions made and make the next decision better. Leaders emerge based on the circumstances. Hence, not all leaders are suitable for all cases.

- Who is a Leader?
We always look up to leaders. However, in attempting to explain how leadership works, we often lose sight of the idea that supporters are an essential part of the equation. Unfortunately, they are given short shrift in management literature. Instead, they are portrayed as merely reacting to their leaders’ charisma or loving attitudes (Lafair 2004). This concept is also applicable to humans in general as a species looking up to a leader. Ira Chaleff created a typology to emphasise the importance of followers in the leadership process (Chaleff 1997). He developed his typology as a result of a seminal moment in his formative years when he became mindful of the atrocities of the Holocaust, which killed over 6 million European Jews during World War II. Chaleff felt a moral obligation to investigate why people supported German leader Adolf Hitler, a purveyor of hatred and death (Chaleff 2008). Rather than representing kings, Chaleff contends that followers, as leaders, have a shared cause and that both leaders and followers strive to accomplish mutual goals. According to Chaleff, followers must take a more constructive position equal to the leader’s role (Chaleff 2009). So, when a purpose greater than oneself is found, a great leader will emerge with the greatest of followers.

> image will be added

## Philosophy of Leadership and Influence
“A Leader is someone who thinks lightly of themself and deeply of the world while trying to solve larger than life questions fueling their hope-filled, interminable drive to reach for the stars eventually.”

As an assertive architect (INTJ-A), one of the rarest and capable personality types, the innate instincts of INTJs revolve around the constant analysis of things around them. However, they never lose hope that, with enough imagination and insight, they will find a way to succeed, regardless of the obstacles that might emerge along the way (Personalities 2020).My philosophy of leadership is an accumulation of various events and people throughout my lifetime. As an INTJ, a leadership ability of 10-12% is inherited (Paul 2016). Furthermore, a personal drive and attitude towards becoming a leader in the initial childhood years could be accounted for a total of 30% leadership ability to start. Age 10 to 15 was a crucial period in shaping an overall leadership agenda, where extensive reading, heroic media influence instilled a drive to see oneself in those positions. A father’s journey from rags to riches, hiding the hardships behind a smile, sacrifices made to keep the family happy, and ability to learn and adapt without proper education acted as the most useful extrinsic motivation tools. Building a start-up at the age of 18 is the most prominent additive factor for the overall increase in leadership ability, where a student had to lead a group of more students to create an idea into an award-winning start-up company. Furthermore, moving ~7000 kilometres away from the home country to pursue knowledge and adventure will increase leadership ability near the natural threshold. Once the overall leadership is nearing the verge of an individual’s threshold, a further increase will only be based on the execution of consistent leadership tasks (Bilotta 2017)

## Can anybody be a leader?
Based on the previous sections, it is evident that leadership can be both innate and developed. However, the ‘ability to develop leadership’ may or may not be natural. In addition to definitional concerns, it is essential to address several other issues concerning the essence of leadership. We will discuss how leadership as a characteristic (innate) differs from leadership as a mechanism (developed), how appointed leadership differs from emergent leadership, and how the principles of authority and coercion differ from leadership in the following section (Kirchner 1990).

**Innate Leadership:**
> image will be added

The characteristic perspective views leadership as a property or collection of properties that various individuals hold to differing degrees. This view implies that the ability remains in a chosen few and limits oversight to those who are thought to have rare, normally inborn, gifts (Jago 2015). Hence, this type of leadership is valid for only a particular kind of leaders.

**Developed Leadership:**
>image will be added

According to the mechanism perspective, leadership is a concept that exists within the framework of relationships between leaders and followers and makes leadership accessible to all. Leadership can be experienced and learned as a mechanism through leader habits (Jago 1982). The process definition of leadership is consistent with the philosophy of leadership that we have seen before in the previous sections.

- Reality vs Philosophy
The philosophy portrayed throughout the earlier sections is what I aim to achieve as a leader. Nevertheless, my pathway and ideology lead me towards a leader well fit in times of a crisis. Hence, a leader who thinks more of the world than oneself is the right path to someone like myself with a perfect blend of abilities and experiences.

# Leadership Challenge – Elon Musk

## About the leader
Elon Reeve Musk was born in South Africa and raised there. Musk aspired to become a resident of the United States as a child. Elon Musk immigrated to Canada as a young adult, where he became a citizen through his mother's ancestry. Musk, a Canadian citizen, earned a living by manual labour in a variety of occupations and positions. Musk's professional history demonstrates his drive to excel. Musk's professional history demonstrates his drive to excel. Most sources begin with his enrollment at Queens College in Canada. According to some reporters (Anderson 2016), “before finishing his degree, [Musk] came to the United States as a foreign student.” Once Elon Musk's childhood dream of visiting the United States was realised, he "made his way out to Silicon Valley, obtained legal permission to work" via a visa, and launched his first business company, Zip2, with the help of his partner (Gilbert Bonner 2017). Elon Musk rose from this entrepreneurial launching pad to become the founder and CEO of Tesla Motors, SolarCity, and SpaceX. The latter has emerged as the most prominent Musk-related topic in today's newspapers (Marques 2017). Elon Musk is the epitome of a competent leader. He is one of the most influential businessmen of our day. Elon Musk has not only flourished in the entrepreneurship realm with his many successful start-ups, but he has also been able to lead these businesses through their journeys of massive success and into the national spotlight (Yauney 2018).

## Challenge facing the leader - Trust
Elon Musk, one of the world's most influential leaders, with a net worth of $173.6 billion and ownership of many businesses struggled several times during his career, but it was those failures that propelled him to prominence today. Using his mistakes as an example of a daunting path to a fruitful conclusion, we will examine his most recent and biggest challenge (Ibrahim 2016). Elon Musk exemplifies the most pressing issue that CEOs are now confronted by. It's palpable how much of a difference a few months will make on how people perceive leadership (Matyszczyk 2020). The challenge is “Trust”. What used to be people’s most trusted institutions? the beacons of hope? Realisation of dreams? The answer is ‘Businesses’. Business Leaders have been fascinating in recent years. However, a sudden opening due to a loss of trust is being seen as a market gap that these businesses capitalised initially. These businesses are becoming disenchanted with capitalism and its increasing inequalities based structure (Edelman 2020). According to the 2020 Edelman Trust Barometer, amid a robust global economy and near-full jobs, none of the four social institutions studied—government, industry, non-governmental organisations, and the media—are trusted. The 2021 Edelman Confidence Barometer (Edelman 2021) shows an epidemic of disinformation and pervasive mistrust of societal structures and leaders around the globe, after a year of unparalleled catastrophe and turmoil – the Covid-19 pandemic and economic recession, the global uproar over structural injustice and political uncertainty. The failing ecosystem of trust throughout the population can be found in people’s fears of their role in the future. Trust all over the world is spurred by economic growth, and the current coronavirus pandemic is adding to this failing trust ecosystem (AMADEUS 2019). Edelman reports (Ibrahim 2016): “Despite a four-point rise in confidence in industry and many high-profile measures taken by businesses and CEOs to support those in need, the private sector's performance since the recession has been markedly disappointing.” So, people now seem to regard governments, especially local governments in some countries, as the most trustworthy bodies (Matyszczyk 2020). However, half of people think business is doing a bad, mediocre, or full job of putting workers above profits; only 43 percent believe businesses are adequately shielding their workers from Covid-19, and 46 percent believe industry is not assisting smaller suppliers and company consumers in staying alive(Edelman 2021). At this point, it’s just Elon Musk’s Forays into the limelight that have not always been fruitful. It is sad that, at a time when people are searching for certainty, Elon Musk, the center of attention, is unable to offer anything more than akin to swagger. For the purpose of our discussion, we take a deeper look at Elon’s Leadership, and how his style of leadership helps him face the challenge of Trust.

## Leadership style to win Trust - Transformational and Charismatic 
As a fellow INTJ, Elon Musk leads successfully with a dynamic leadership style that incorporates the highlights of authoritative strategies, despite being a genuine charismatic servant leader. Musk uses democracy to elicit input and engagement, but he is coercive when it comes to ensuring obedience, dealing with crises, cultivating and compelling affiliations, and forming relational bonds inside each organisation (Padgett. N 2015). Elon’s philosophy aligns well with the earlier discussed personal philosophy of leadership, in terms of decision feedback-evaluation and having a larger-than-life vision. When asked what he considers to be the most powerful leadership characteristic, Musk responds (Ramani 2016:
> “I believe it is important to create a feedback loop in which you are always thinking about what you've done and how you could do it differently. I believe that is the single most important bit of advice: Constantly question yourself and consider how you could do it differently”.

As part of their Psychology curriculum, a group of Penn State students collaborated on a Leadership blog to offer a practical study of Elon Musk's leadership style. According to experts, Musk's leadership habits correspond with Bennis and Nanus'transformational leadership techniques (McGrath and Bate 2021). Anything about "Musk" is infused with vision. Elon Musk has been seen in observational trials involving other business innovators to manage objections without losing his stride. Musk is at the forefront of politicians who transcend personal or environmental obstacles, demonstrating the complexity of the mission and the level of transformation required to accomplish their goals as well as the bravery to confront risks and difficulties in the achievement of their objectives(Thiel 2015). Transformational leadership, according to (Bass 1985), motivates followers to do better than anticipated by (a) raising followers' levels of consciousness regarding the meaning and significance of defined and idealised goals, (b) ringing followers to sacrifice their own self interest for the benefit of the team or organisation, and (c) pushing followers to meet higher-level goals. Transformational leaders often have solid internal beliefs and ideals, and they are successful at inspiring followers to respond in ways that benefit the common good rather than their own self-interests (Kuhnert 1994). One of the factors that transformational leadership incorporates is ‘Idealised Influence’ or often referred to as charisma or idealised power. The idealised influence factor is calculated using two components: an attributional component that refers to followers' attributions of leaders based on impressions of their leaders, and a behavioral component that refers to followers' evaluations of leaders behaviour (Northouse 2019). It is sometimes defined in terms that make Charismatic Leadership sound equivalent to, if not identical to, transformational leadership (Khatri et al. 2001). In conclusion, charismatic leadership is effective since it connects followers and their self-concepts to the corporate identity.
> image will be added 

Until now, we have looked at Elon Musk’s transformational and charismatic leadership style, now let us see if his style is winning the challenge of trust. Elon Musk motivates his followers and, while he has high hopes for them, he still has high expectations for himself. Elon emphasises for those in positions of authority must be committed to doing the work required for the company's success until they can persuade others to contribute (Ruth 2017). Employers work tirelessly to make the boss satisfied. Shawn Achor, a world-renowned psychologist, claims in his book "The Happiness Advantage" that happiness and positivity are primary factors of success in terms of performance and productivity (Achor 2011).

>image will be added

Marcial Losada, a psychologist and industry strategist, discovered that the ratio of positive-to-negative relationships is 2.9013 following detailed statistical modelling required for the best performance of a management team (Yauney 2018). Furthermore, Losada found that, while teams just over the "Losada Line" (Tewari 2021) are not hampered by negativity, teams that achieve a positive-to-negative statement ratio of six-to-one achieve optimum levels of success. Managers have a huge ability to shape workplace culture when they normally work with a vast number of workers.

As learnt earlier, Elon has his managers extremely committed to the common goal and in turn building commitment among the employees by keeping them happy. In this way, Musk is turning employees and followers into his fans (Stephen 2018). While Elon Musk is a one-of-a-kind CEO, many of the leadership traits that have contributed to his success can be cultivated in managers at all levels of an organisation. Companies with a strategic advantage should invest in their human resources by fostering a work environment conducive to the development of quality managers (James MacGregor Burns 2021). A workplace culture focused on lifelong learning, leading by example, strong project goals, and positivity is the greenhouse in which workers can mature into successful managers (Yauney 2018). Companies who pay the price for cultivating a good office culture will continually stand out and see significant internal development as workers move up to become successful bosses and branch out the company.

`“MUSK SEEMS TO HIS FANS, LIKE THE ONE GUY YOU CAN TRUST” -THE VERGE`

# Leadership analysis – Princess Diana

## About the leader
Lady Diana Spencer rose to prominence as a stunning young British aristocrat who married Prince Charles, the heir presumptive to the British throne. Her wedding to Prince Charles was broadcast, and millions of viewers around the world tuned in. She was a reserved and lovely British aristocrat (Mthembu n.d.). The princess appeared in an era when the royal family of Great Britain ruled their realm from the luxuries of their throne, and she would transform the face of the royal family. Princess Diana was one of the world's most prominent women, having been voted one of Time Magazine's 100 Most Important People of the 20th Century (SAMUEL 2016). She was known as the "people's princess" until her tragic death in a car crash (Laliberte 2021) in 1997. This raised some questions like “What makes Princess Diana such an important person?”, “Why were 2.5 billion people interested in her funeral?”,and “How did she alter the way her country treated social problems that had been seen as unfavorable for centuries?”

## Leadership style – Transformational and Servant
Princess Diana exemplifies the servant leader. A great leader is first and foremost seen as a subordinate, and this plain truth is the secret to her greatness. What she is on the inside. In her efforts to help others (Sendjaya and Sarros 2002), Princess Diana raised awareness of AIDS research and malnutrition awareness in impoverished nations, demonstrated concern for people suffering from leprosy when it was still considered an untouchable illness, and campaigned against the use of land mines. She displayed servant leadership characteristics such as listening, patience, healing, understanding, persuasion, conceptualisation, and foresight (Eva et al. 2019). One of Lady Diana's most inspiring moments as a politician was raising awareness about the social stigma associated with those living with the HIV/AIDS virus. In the 1980s, many people suspected that HIV/Aids could be transmitted simply by contacting an infected human (Kizer 2010). Lady Diana, in front of the world's newspapers, kissed the hand of a man suffering from this disease to inspire sympathy and empathy. Lady Diana Spencer demonstrated several leadership skills in the preceding example. Her personality characteristics of modesty, honesty, self-confidence, and trustworthiness altered how many people saw someone suffering from Aids (Hai and Van 2021). She raised global recognition for unglamorous issues and set an example for future royal generations, including each of her sons. Her career zeal, courage, sound work integrity, and motivation paved the way for others to follow in her footsteps. Many of his celebrity friends founded charities in her honor to support causes dear to her heart (Hesse 1956). The servant leadership model is made up of three parts: antecedent circumstances, servant leader attitudes, and outcomes. The model's core emphasis is on the seven leader practices that promote servant leadership: conceptualising, mental healing, placing followers first, assisting followers in growing and succeeding, acting ethically, inspiring, and providing 
meaning for the world (Northouse 2019).

- Servant first, then a Queen
She demonstrated servant leadership characteristics such as listening, empathy, healing, understanding, persuasion, conceptualisation, foresight, stewardship, dedication to people's development, and communication building. She was invited to partner with several charities as a member of the British Royal family, but unlike former royals, she preferred charities that she was drawn to (Eva et al. 2019). She was more than just patronage and media appearances; she was genuinely committed to her charities and wished to make a difference in the lives of those who were marginalised by society. Greenleaf's pioneering work on the servant as chief is represented by the ten qualities of servant leadership. They have a fresh perspective on the nuances of servant leadership (Greenleaf 1970). Elton John delivered an HIV lecture dubbed "The Diana, Princess of Wales Lecture on HIV" in 2018, to an audience that included not only health staff but also politicians and celebrities(CHOW 2021). In his address, Elton John emphasised Diana, Princess of Wales's significantcontribution to such a vital cause, as well as how her battle against the stigmas associated with this disease has had a long-lasting effect on this culture.

## Leadership Analysis
Transformational (charisma aspect) and servant leadership have a deep biblical relationship. Princess Diana was able to “empower her fans by improving their perceptions of self-efficacy and faith in their abilities to conquer challenges, using emotional persuasion and verbal affirmation, and serving as a role model (Sendjaya and Sarros 2002).” Princess Diana's charismatic attribute is described as her "individual personality by virtue of which she is distinguished from ordinary men and regarded as endowed with magical, superhuman, or at the very least clearly exceptional attributes."It is important to distinguish between a servant leader and a transformational leader when describing Princess Diana as a servant leader. In two ways, servant leadership outperforms transformational leadership (Bass 1985). 1) "its appreciation of the leader's social responsibility to represent all individuals who are oppressed by a scheme" 2) "its commitment to the wishes and desires of followers rather than their own or their company. According to theorists Choi and Mai-Dalton (Choi and Mai-Dalton 1999), "it may merely be nothing more than a ploy to impress followers and exploit their reactions to reciprocate," but what will Princess Diana personally benefit by helping others? Princess Diana was a servant first, then a queen. Her job as a servant forced her to take the reins. “The servant chief is first and foremost a servant” (Greenleaf 1970). It all starts with the innate need to serve, to serve first. Then, through deliberate decision, one aspires to lead. As Princess Diana once said, “I’d like to be a queen in people’s hearts”, so now,

`THE PEOPLE’S QUEEN'S LEGACY IS UP TO HER FANS TO CARRY FORWARD.`

# References

Achor, S. (2011) ‘The happiness advantage: the seven principles of positive psychology that 
fuel success and performance at work’, Choice Reviews Online, 48(07), 48-4166-48–4166, available: https://www.worldcat.org/title/happiness-advantage-the-seven-principles-that-fuel-success-and-performance-at-work/oclc/1120432060?referer=&ht=edition [accessed 4 May 2021].

AMADEUS (2019) Global Report, World Cement.Anderson, S. (2016) ‘International Students Who Started Billion-Dollar Companies’, International Educator 25, no. 4, 24(1), 4, available: https://search.proquest.com/openview/f4620d3a2e0b13d5d71cb194e8375e33/1?pq-origsite=gscholar&cbl=44755 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Bass, B.M. (1985) Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. [online], New York Free Press, available: https://www.scirp.org/(S(351jmbntvnsjt1aadkposzje))/reference/ReferencesPapers.as
px?ReferenceID=1871416 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Bilotta, C. (2017) Crossing the Leadership Threshold [online], Drexel University, available: https://drexel.edu/alumni/events/acs/article-archive/2017/March/leadership/ [accessed 3 May 2021].

Chaleff, I. (1997) ‘The Courageous Follower: Standing Up to And for Our Leaders’, NASSP Bulletin, 81(586), 119–119.Chaleff, I. (2008) ‘The Art of followership: how great followers create great leaders and 
organisations’, Choice Reviews Online, 45(12), 45-6876-45–6876, available: https://www.wiley.com/en-us/The+Art+of+Followership%3A+How+Great+Followers+Create+Great+Leaders+and+Organizations-p-9780787996659 [accessed 2 May 2021].

Chaleff, I. (2009) The Courageous Follower: Standing Up to and for Our Leaders [online], Berrett-Koehler Publishers, available: https://www.perlego.com/book/1248884/the-courageous-follower-standing-up-to-and-for-our-leaders-pdf?utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=1-EU %7C en %7C DSA Test 18.12.20&utm_source=google&utm_medium=cpc&utm_campaign=11871053709&utm_term=&utm_con [accessed 2 May 2021].

Choi, Y., Mai-Dalton, R.R. (1999) ‘The model of followers’ responses to self-sacrificial leadership: An empirical test’, Leadership Quarterly, 10(3), 397–421, available: /record/1999-15194-004 [accessed 4 May 2021].CHOW, A.R. (2021) Elton John Opens Up About Princess Diana and Royal Family [online], Time, available: https://time.com/5701169/elton-john-princess-diana-royal-family/ [accessed 4 May 2021].

Dvir, T., Eden, D., Avolio, B.J., Shamir, B. (2002) ‘Impact of transformational leadership on follower development and performance: A field experiment’, Academy of Management Journal, 45(4), 735–744, available: https://www.jstor.org/stable/3069307?seq=1 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Edelman (2020) ‘2020 Edelman Trust Barometer’, Edelman Holdings Inc., 2–77, available: https://www.edelman.com/trust/2020-trust-barometer [accessed 4 May 2021].

Edelman (2021) 2021 Edelman Trust Barometer Press Release [online], available: https://www.edelman.com/trust/2021-trust-barometer [accessed 4 May 2021].

Eva, N., Robin, M., Sendjaya, S., van Dierendonck, D., Liden, R.C. (2019) ‘Servant Leadership: A systematic review and call for future research’, Leadership Quarterly, 30(1), 111–132.Gilbert-Bonner, P. (2017) Elon Musk - Failure Is an Option [online], ResearchGate, available: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316842142_Elon_Musk_-_Failure_is_an_Option [accessed 4 May 2021].

Greenleaf, R.K. (1970) ‘The Servant as Leader - Greenleaf Center for Servant Leadership’, pg2–pg14, available: https://www.greenleaf.org/products-page/the-servant-as-leader/ [accessed 4 May 2021].

Hai, T.N., Van, Q.N. (2021) ‘Servant Leadership Styles: A Theoretical Approach’, Emerging Science Journal, 5(2), 245–256, available: https://ijournalse.org/index.php/ESJ/article/view/477 [accessed 4 May 2021].Hesse, H. (1956) The Journey to the East By [online], Journal of Spirituality and Justice, available: https://www.clarion-journal.com/clarion_journal_of_spirit/2012/08/the-journey-to-the-east-by-herman-hesse-1956-ron-dart.html [accessed 4 May 2021].

Ibrahim, Z. (2016) Elon Musk Challenges [online], available: https://egyptinnovate.com/en/articles/elon-musk-no-i-don’t-give-i’d-have-be-dead-or-completely-incapacitated [accessed 4 May 2021].

Jago, A.G. (1982) ‘Leadership: Perspectives in Theory and Research’, Management Science, 28(3), 315–336, available: https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/mnsc.28.3.315 [accessed 3 May 2021].Jago, A.G. (2015) LEADERSHIP: Perspective in Theory and Research, JSTOR.James MacGregor Burns (2021) Leadership (Book, 1978) [WorldCat.Org] [online], available: https://www.worldcat.org/title/leadership/oclc/3632001 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Khatri, N., Ng, H.A., Lee, T.H. (2001) ‘The distinction between charisma and vision: An empirical study’, Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 18(3), 373–393, available: https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1010653929261 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Kirchner, W. (1990) ‘A Force for Change: How Leadership Differs from Management.’, Personal Psychology, 43(3), 654–657, available: https://www.hbs.edu/faculty/Pages/item.aspx?num=142 [accessed 3 May 2021].Kizer, H. (2010) LeadershipTheory and Behavior: The People’s Princess [online], available: https://leadershiptheory3450.blogspot.com/2010/11/peoples-princess.html [accessed PAGE 144 May 2021].

Kuhnert, K.W. (1994) ‘Transforming leadership: Developing people through delegation.’, Improving organisational effectiveness through transformational leadership, 12(4), 18–20, available: https://psycnet.apa.org/record/1995-97316-001 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Lafair, S. (2004) ‘Why People Follow the Leader: The Power of Transference’, Harvard business review, 82(12), 143–144, available: https://hbr.org/2004/09/why-people-follow-the-leader-the-power-of-transference [accessed 2 May 2021].

Laliberte, M. (2021) 10 Conspiracy Theories Around Princess Diana’s Death [online], Reader’s Digest, available: https://www.rd.com/list/princess-diana-death-conspiracy-theories/ [accessed 4 May 2021].Marques, J. (2017) ‘A Mindful Moral Compass for Twenty-First Century Leadership: The Noble Eightfold Path’, Journal of Values-Based Leadership, 10(1), available: http://dx.doi.org/10.22543/0733.101.1177Availableat:http://scholar.valpo.edu/jvbl/vol10/iss1/7 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Matyszczyk, C. (2020) How Elon Musk Exemplifies the Biggest Problem CEOs Now Face [online], Inc.com, available: https://www.inc.com/chris-matyszczyk/how-elon-musk-exemplifies-biggest-problem-ceos-now-face.html [accessed 4 May 2021].

McGrath, J., Bate, B. (2021) THEORY 22: BENNIS AND NANUS’ TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERSHIP (TL) THEORY - The Little Book of Big Management Theories [Book] [online], 2013, available: https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-little-book/9780273785262/html/chapter-025.html [accessed 4 May 2021].

Mthembu, T. (n.d.) ‘Leadership &amp; Managing People -PUA 614 Choose two theories of leadership and explain leadership successes or failures. Identifying two leaders that applied the same theories’, available: https://www.academia.edu/34818517/Leadership_and_Managing_People_PUA_614_C
hoose_two_theories_of_leadership_and_explain_leadership_successes_or_failures_Identifying_two_leaders_that_applied_the_same_theories [accessed 4 May 2021].

Northouse, P.G. (2019) Leadership: Theory and Practice [online], available: https://studydaddy.com/attachment/146554/Peter_G._Northouse_Leadership__Theory_and_Practiz-lib.org.pdf [accessed 2 May 2021].

Padgett. N, L. (2015) ‘Elon Musk : Transformational Leadership in Action’, 2011–2014, available: https://sites.psu.edu/leadership/2015/03/26/elon-musk-transformational-leadership-in-action/ [accessed 4 May 2021].

Paul, S. (2016) The Surprising Myers-Briggs Personality Type That Makes the Best Leader | Paul Sohn [online], available: https://paulsohn.org/the-surprising-myers-briggs-personality-type-that-makes-the-best-leader/ [accessed 3 May 2021].

Personalities, 16 (2020) ‘Your Profile | 16Personalities’, 16Personalities.Com, available: https://www.16personalities.com/profile [accessed 1 May 2021].

Ramani, S. (2016) ‘Reflections on feedback: Closing the loop’, Medical Teacher, available: PAGE 15 https://www.researchgate.net/publication/277601928 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Ruth, U. (2017) The Tactics Elon Musk Uses to Motivate His Teams [online], CNBC LLC, available: https://www.cnbc.com/2017/07/05/2-major-ways-executives-like-elon-musk-are-trying-to-stop-you-from-quitting.html [accessed 4 May 2021].

SAMUEL, J. (2016) ‘Princess Diana’, in Fashion Photography Archive, available: https://time.com/tag/princess-diana/ [accessed 4 May 2021].

Sendjaya, S., Sarros, J.C. (2002) ‘Servant Leadership: Its Origin, Development, and Application in Organisations’, Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 9(2), 57–64, available: https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/107179190200900205 [accessed 4 May 2021].

Stephen, B. (2018) Inside the Minds of Elon Musk’s Fans - The Verge [online], theverge.com, available: https://www.theverge.com/2018/6/26/17505744/elon-musk-fans-tesla-spacex-fandom [accessed 4 May 2021].

Tewari, R. (2021) The “Losada Line” : Mathematics of Flourishing Relationships. [online], The Startup | Medium, available: https://medium.com/swlh/the-losada-line-mathematics-of-flourishing-relationships-f4633f4ea48f [accessed 4 May 2021].

Thiel, K. (2015) ‘Deviating from Norms to Create Extraordinary Change: Introducing the Concept of Transcendent Deviance’, 57.Yauney, R.H. (2018) ‘Leadership Development: A Study of Elon Musk’, Marriot Student Review, 2(2), 2–5, available: https://scholarsarchive.byu.edu/marriottstudentreview/vol2/iss2/4 [accessed 4 May 2021]
