---
layout: distill
title: Do Artifacts have Politics?
date: 2022-01-07
tags: data, general
description: 

authors:
  - name: Mohan Ramesh
    url: "https://github.com/Neuromancer24"
    affiliations: 
      name: University of Limerick

toc:
  - name: Overview of the author and the article
  - name: Review 
  - name: Thoughts
  - name: References

_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }

---

# Overview of the author and the article
Langdon Winner, the leading academic on the Politics of Technology (Wall Street Journal 2021), was born in California. A birth condition did not allow him to play sports and indulge in other activities;hence he became an avid reader. Winner noticed a relationship between his learnings and technology going out of control through his childhood movie viewing, love of sci-fi and books. (Garvey 2017) In his opinion, technology is intrinsically political, in that each specific technology allows a community to make some political choices on how to use it and adapt to it. In his 1977 book “Autonomous Technologies”, Winner attacks the idea of technologies being value-neutral (and people and their perspectives make them good or bad) (Winner 1977). So, What does his 1980 article “Do Artifacts Have Politics” tell its readers? An academic way to look at it, and in the words of Prof. Langdon winner itself, is to understand the article’s basis by looking at the definitions of the two crucial themes embedded throughout the article. 1) Politics – is a distribution of power, authority, and privilege. 2) Technology - The way of building order in the world. The way that takes out the chaos and brings order in the world. (Gorichanaz 2020)By extracting an overview of discrimination highlighted in the article, we can say the stratification can be in 2 main ways: decision and necessity (Winner 1980). For example; By decision, the shape of anyclassroom is a type of political arrangement, and several such examples can be found everywhere. However, the prominent example we all remember is building bridges by then master builder Robert Moses in long island, New York. i.e., how a designer of roads, parks and bridges, built his creations that were purely out of class and racial bias. His bridge-cage shows us that he did not want poorpeople/more people/black people in his fancy beach meant for the high class. An example of strata by necessity is Nuclear power plants. Nuclear energy is not something anyone can try to produce at will. It requires centralized authority, infrastructure etc. However, solar power is distributed, and anyone can have it (Gorichanaz 2020). The available evidence tends to show that many large, sophisticated tech systems are, in fact, highly compatible with centralized, hierarchical managerial control.Overall, Towards technology and its artifacts, Prof. Langdon Winner’s parting questions to the readers are;
1. Should we adopt it?
2. If yes, In what form?

# Review
Cultural or Technological artifacts are not inherently political; however, they indeed tend to have politics through associations. Technologies around the time when Prof. Langdon Winner wrote the article was limited and much more mundane. The idea of mobile computing was just a thought experiment. Now, we are in a time where we are about to unleash artificial intelligence. So, we need to ask ourselves, what is our responsibility to restore the balance that this technology has disrupted? (Barba 2018)

# Thoughts
Based on the technological innovations in his time, Winner’s article features the social stratification by only a few main types, which we already discussed in the above sections, i.e., by decision and necessity. However, we can see various other types in which technology is reshaping society. For example; We can talk about a new unintentional type of stratification which is neither necessary nor decided by any centralized body. It is purely collateral damage in the creation and usage of new technology. One such example is the “Algorithmic bias” (TRT world 2018). As artificial intelligence progresses exponentially, the errors it makes can also be exponential. The data-based architecture embedded in the AI algorithms can be unintentionally sexist, racist etc.Moreover, the people who control the data to train these models can impose a significant bias through the system. As more and more industries that profoundly impact humans turn towards using these algorithmic approaches, this algorithmic bias plays a significant factor in shaping society. To conclude,we can say the group of people who get it very well would be the technologists. A group of people who do not understand it or have minimal understanding would be the policymakers. (Heilweil 2020)

# References
Barba, E. (2018) Why We Need to Understand the Politics Inherent in Technology [online], TEDxTysonsSalon, available: https://www.ted.com/talks/evan_barba_why_we_need_to_understand_the_politics_inherent_in_technology [accessed 9 Mar 2021].

Garvey, C.S. (2017) Langdon Winner Reflects on Autonomous Technologies #4S2017 [online], YouTube, available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=na0Isi6s77k [accessed 7 Mar 2021].

Gorichanaz, T. (2020) Summary of ‘Do Artifacts Have Politics?’ By Langdon Winner - YouTube [online], YouTube, available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYfvQYOTG-0 [accessed 7 Mar 2021].

Heilweil, R. (2020) Algorithms and Bias, Explained [online], Vox, available: https://www.vox.com/recode/2020/2/18/21121286/algorithms-bias-discrimination-facialrecognition-transparency [accessed 9 Mar 2021].

TRT world (2018) Algorithmic Bias Explained - [online], YouTube, available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWOUw8omUVg [accessed 9 Mar 2021].

Wall Street Journal (2021) Neo-Luddites Call Out ‘Halt’ To Unthinking Technophiles - WSJ [online], available: https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB86587176194304000 [accessed 7 Mar 2021].

Winner, L. (1977) Autonomous Technology [online], MIT Press, available: https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/autonomous-technology [accessed 9 Mar 2021].

Winner, L. (1980) ‘Do Artifacts Have Politics? on JSTOR’, Daedalus ,The MIT Press, 109(1), 121–136, available: https://www.jstor.org/stable/20024652?seq=1 [accessed 9 Mar 2021]